#summary How to create a database by command-line user interface or by a .rsdb-structure file.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

Show common syntax to create databases and table, and introduce basic types for fields.


= Details =

== Creating a new empty database ==

{{{
database mydatabase {}
}}}

The line above create a new empty database called `mydatabase`. The database scope is global if it is created from the command-line interface or inherent to file scope if it is created from a .rsdb-structure file.

== Creating a new empty table ==

{{{
table mytable {}
}}}

The line above create a new empty table called `mytable` in the global scope. To define a database scope for your table, you can use the syntax below.

{{{
table mydatabase.mytable {}
}}}

If the table is defined during the database creation, the syntax below can do the trick.

{{{
database mydatabase
{
    table mytable {}
}
}}}

This is essential if the database structure is defined in a .rsdb-structure file.

== A table with columns ==

If you want to create a simple table like a friends name/birthday/email table, you can do it by using the code below.

{{{
table friends
{
    name: text;
    birthday: date;
    email: text;
}
}}}

The syntax `field-name: type;` is self-descriptive for who barely know database structures. Each `field-name` is a column in the table with the type `type`. The type `text` means for a text field with unlimited size. The `date` type means a simple date with days, months and years.

You can view all supported data types and an explanation at the [DataTypes] page.